BUILDING.md, before:

# Building nsasm

## Installing clang-9

Because I am a C++ nerd, I use C++17 features, rather than targeting the
version of the language that is widely deployed.  You need to install a modern
compiler to build nsasm.


1. Open a shell, and determine your ubuntu version number.

```
$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS
Release:        18.04
Codename:       bionic
```

2. Visit https://apt.llvm.org/, and find the link to the package repository
which has nightly versions of clang.

3. Add clang's signature to the apt-get keychain

`$ wget -O - https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key|sudo apt-key add -`

4. Add the appropriate repository for your version of Ubuntu, replacing
the quoted portion of the following as appropriate

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository \
  "deb http://apt.llvm.org/bionic/ llvm-toolchain-bionic main"
```

5. Install clang-9

`$ sudo apt-get install clang-9 lldb-9 lld-9 libc++-9-dev`

6. Set your CC environment variable to point to clang-9.  This is how bazel
knows which compiler to use.

`export CC=/usr/bin/clang-9`

You'll want to add this line to your `.bashrc` or equivalent if you intend to
build nsasm regularly.

## Installing bazel

I use bazel, sorry.  Installing from the binary installer is easiest, and
works for me.  This installs the binary for a single user and does not require
root.

The instructions on https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-ubuntu.html are straightforward.  (You'll want the `linux-x86_64.sh` installer.)

## Checking out nsasm

Create a directory for nsasm development and clone the repo.  If you just want
to get started quick and dirty, run

    $ git clone https://github.com/vslashg/nsasm.git

You may have to `apt-get install` git first.


## building nsasm

bazel's options story is absurd; there's no good way to specify project-wide
copts.  Until I fix this in the build files, you can run all tests and build
all tools by executing the following from the directory you just pulled from
git:

    $ bazel test --copt --std=c++17 //...
    $ bazel build --copt --std=c++17 //...

Commit message:

Abandon C++17 features in nsasm.
They were nice, but not worth the frustration during collaboration,
and certainly not worth navigating the nightmare of custom CROSSTOOL
files in bazel.

nsasm now ought to work with any reasonable C++11 compiler.

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building nsasm

## Installing clang-9

I use clang-9 for development, but nsasm should work on any reasonably up-to-date
compiler.  If you still want to try installing clang-9, do the following:

1. Open a shell, and determine your ubuntu version number.

```
$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS
Release:        18.04
Codename:       bionic
```

2. Visit https://apt.llvm.org/, and find the link to the package repository
which has nightly versions of clang.

3. Add clang's signature to the apt-get keychain

`$ wget -O - https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key|sudo apt-key add -`

4. Add the appropriate repository for your version of Ubuntu, replacing
the quoted portion of the following as appropriate

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository \
  "deb http://apt.llvm.org/bionic/ llvm-toolchain-bionic main"
```

5. Install clang-9

`$ sudo apt-get install clang-9 lldb-9 lld-9 libc++-9-dev`

6. Set your CC environment variable to point to clang-9.  This is how bazel
knows which compiler to use.

`export CC=/usr/bin/clang-9`

You'll want to add this line to your `.bashrc` or equivalent if you intend to
build nsasm regularly.

## Installing bazel

I use bazel, sorry.  Installing from the binary installer is easiest, and
works for me.  This installs the binary for a single user and does not require
root.

The instructions on https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-ubuntu.html are straightforward.  (You'll want the `linux-x86_64.sh` installer.)

## Checking out nsasm

Create a directory for nsasm development and clone the repo.  If you just want
to get started quick and dirty, run

    $ git clone https://github.com/vslashg/nsasm.git

You may have to `apt-get install` git first.


## building nsasm

I gave up on trying to use C++17 features in nsasm, which makes the story rather
straightforward.

    $ bazel test //...
    $ bazel build //...
